I remember thinking to myself this is
gonna change everything about how we
communicate well hyperlink is an
interface element and what I mean by
that is when you're using software on
your phone or your computer there's a
lot of code behind the interface that's
giving all the instructions for the
computer on how to manage it but that
interface is the thing that humans
interact with and when we press on this
then something happens when they first
came around they were pretty simple and
not particularly glamorous designers
today have a huge range of options the
hyperlink uses what's called a markup
language HTML there's a little string of
code and then you put the address of
where you want to send the person it's
actually remarkably easy to learn how to
do and so the whole range of references
to information elsewhere on the Internet
is the domain of
back when I was in school this is before
people had wide access to the Internet
if I was gonna do a research paper I
would have to physically walk to the
library and if they had a book that you
needed great you sometimes had to send
out for it and so the process could take
weeks and it's kind of crazy to think
about that now because like all great
innovations it's not long after we get
access to something that we start to
take it for granted back in 1945 there
was this guy neva Bush and he was
working for the US government and one of
the ideas that he put forth was Wow
humans are creating so much information
and we can't keep track of all the books
that we've read or the connections
between important ideas and he had this
idea called the Memex where you could
put together a personal library of all
of the books and articles that you have
access to and that idea of connecting
sources captured people's imaginations
later in the 1960s Ted Nelson launches
project Xanadu and he said well what if
it wasn't just limited of things that I
have what if I could connect ideas
across a larger body of work in 1982
researchers at the University of
Maryland developed a system they called
hyper ties they were the first to use
text itself as a link marker they
figured out that this blue link on a
gray background was gonna work really
well in terms of contrast and people be
able to see it Apple invented HyperCard
in 1987 and you had these stacks of
cards and you could create links in
between the cards hypercard actually
created the ability to jump around in a
story these kinds of notions of
nonlinear storytelling got a huge boost
when the hyperlink came along because it
gave people the opportunity to influence
the narrative these ideas and inventions
among others inspired Tim berners-lee
the inventor of the World Wide Web the
hyperlink almost feels like a Lego block
this very basic building block to a very
complex web of connections that exists
all around the world because of the way
that hyperlinks were first constructed
they were intended
to be not only used by many people but
created by many people to me it's one of
the most democratic designs ever created
[Music]